Day 7 Task: Understanding package manager and systemctl 

 

 

What is a package manager in Linux? 

  Package Managers is a group of software tools. It is mostly used to automate the proces of installing,upgrading,configuring and removing programs. 

  The Packages manager can be a graphical application like software center.  

 

What is a Package? 

		A Package is usually referred to an application but it could be a GUI application,command line tool or software library. A Paackage metadata contains package version,package description,and dependencies 

 

Tasks: - 

 

    You have to install docker and jenkins in your system from your terminal using package managers. 

 

Install Docker :- 

 
	Here below commands are used to install Docker and Manage Docker 

	sudo apt-get remove docker-engine  docker.io :- Remove any Docker files that are running in the system. 

 

        sudo apt-get update :- Check if the System is up-to-date. 

 

        sudo apt install docker.io :- To install docker 

                 sudo snap install docker :- install dependency packages 

 

       docker –version :- To check Docker Version 

     	       sudo docker run hello-world :- pull the “hello-world ” imge from Docker Hub 

		sudo docker images :- to check the available images list. 

		sudo docker ps –a :- to check the process states of all containers 

										 	 

 

Install Jenkins:- 

Before installing jenkins, first we need to install java. 

Link(install java): https://www.theserverside.com/blog/Coffee-Talk-Java-News-Stories-and-Opinions/How-do-I-install-Java-on-Ubuntu 

 

	sudo apt install default-jdk 

	java –version 

		 

Here refer below Link  to install and configure  Jenkins  

Link(install jenkins) : https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-jenkins-on-ubuntu-22-04 

 

What is systemctl and systemd? 

	The systemctl command is a systemd utility to manage services and get information about service states. 

systemd gives us the systemctl commands suite which is mostly used to enable services to start at boot time. We can also start, stop, reload, restart and check status of services with the help of systemctl. 

 

check the status of docker service in your system (make sure you completed above tasks, else docker won't be installed) 

			systemctl status docker 

		 

 

stop the service jenkins and post before and after screenshots 

			systemctl status jenkins 

 			systemctl stop jenkins 

			systemctl status jenkins 


systemctl vs service  

 

initd and systemd are both init daemons. Init uses service whereas systemd uses systemctl to manage linux services.  

Both are used to manage services like start,stop,restart,reload the service and also check the status of the service. 

 

systemctl:- 

systemctl  start docker.service 

systemctl stop docker.service 

systemctl reload docker.service 

systemctl restart docker.service 

systemctl  status docker.service 

 

service:- 

service docker status 

service docker start 

service docker stop 

service docker restart 

	 

	 

 

 

 
