 Python Data Types and Data Structures for DevOps 

 

Data Types 

Data types are the classification or categorization of data items. It represents the kind of value that tells what operations can be performed on a particular data. 

Since everything is an object in Python programming, data types are actually classes and variables are instance (object) of these classes. 

Python has the following data types built-in by default: Numeric (Integer, complex, float), Sequential (string, lists, tuples), Boolean, Set, Dictionaries, etc. 

To check what is the data type of the variable used, we can simply write: your variable=100 type (your variable) 

 

Data Structures 

 

Data Structures are a way of organizing data so that it can be accessed more efficiently depending upon the situation. Data Structures are fundamentals of any programming language around which a program is built. Python helps to learn the fundamental of these data structures in a simpler way as compared to other programming languages. 

Lists Python Lists are just like the arrays, declared in other languages which is an ordered collection of data. It is very flexible as the items in a list do not need to be of the same type 

Tuple Python Tuple is a collection of Python objects much like a list but Tuples are immutable in nature i.e. the elements in the tuple cannot be added or removed once created. Just like a List, a Tuple can also contain elements of various types. 

Dictionary Python dictionary is like hash tables in any other language with the time complexity of O (1). It is an unordered collection of data values, used to store data values like a map, which, unlike other Data Types that hold only a single value as an element, Dictionary holds the key: value pair. Key-value is provided in the dictionary to make it more optimized 

Tasks 

 

Give the Difference between List, Tuple and set. Do Handson and put screenshots as per your understanding. 

	 

List 

Tuple 

Set 

A List is Changeable means, we can add, remove items after creating a list. 

A Tuple is Unchangeable means, we can’t add, remove items after creating a Tuple. 

 

A Set is Unchangeable means, we can’t change the items after creating a Set, but you can add or remove a items. 

List items are indexed, and start with 0. 

Tuple items are indexed, and start with 0. 

 

Set items are Unindexed 

List allow Duplicates Values 

Tuple allow Duplicates Values 

Set don’t  allow Duplicates Values 

List is an Ordered manner 

Tuple is an Ordered manner 

Set items are an Unordered manner 

List are created using square brackets [ values]  

Tuple are created using round brackets ( values,) 

Set is created using curly brackets {values} 

Ex: - list1= [2,4,6,” Rushi”,” Rahul”] 

 

Ex: - tuple1= (2,4,6,” Rushi", "Rahul”) 

 

Ex: - set1= {2,4,6,” Rushi", "Rahul”} 

 

 

 

List: - 

	 

 

Tuple: - 

	 

 

Set: - 

	 

 

Create below Dictionary and use Dictionary methods to print your favorite tool just by using the keys of the Dictionary. 

fav_tools =  
{  
  1:"Linux",  
  2:"Git",  
  3:"Docker",  
  4:"Kubernetes",  
  5:"Terraform",  
  6:"Ansible",  
  7:"Chef" 
} 

Dict :- 

	 

 
 

Create a List of cloud service providers  

e.g. 

cloud_providers = ["AWS","GCP","Azure"] 
 

Write a program to add Digital Ocean to the list of cloud_providers and sort the list in alphabetical order. 

 

 

[Hint: Use keys to built in functions for Lists] 

 
