Day-22: Getting Started with Jenkins
Tasks:
1. What you understood in Jenkin, write a small article in your own words 

(Don't copy from Internet Directly)
Jenkins is a tool that is used for automation, and it is an open-source server that allows all the 
developers to build, test and deploy software. The Jenkins is written in java, that is the reason, 
when you want to run Jenkins. Then first you install java on your system.
By Using Jenkins, we can make an end-to-end automation (CI/CD). There are over a thousand 
plugins that you can use to extend Jenkins’ capabilities and make it more user-specific. All of 
these plugins and extensions are developed in Java.
Advantages of Jenkins:
1] It is an open-source tool.
2]It is free of cost.
3] easy to install
4] It supports 1000 or more plugins to ease your work. If a plugin does not exist, you can 
write the script for it and share with community.
5] It is platform independent. It is available for all platforms and different operating systems. Like 
OS X, Windows or Linux.
6] Jenkins also supports cloud-based architecture so that we can deploy Jenkins in cloud-based 
platforms.
You want to install Jenkins on ubuntu? Please refer below official page to install Jenkins.
https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-jenkins-on-ubuntu-22-04

2. Create a freestyle pipeline to print "Hello Your Name”
Jenkins freestyle projects allow users to automate simple jobs, such as running tests, creating and 
packaging applications, producing reports, or executing commands.
How to Set up a Build Job in Jenkins
1] Login to the AWS EC2 Ubuntu Instance and install java, Jenkins. 
2] On AWS EC2 instance, allow 8080 port(inside security group) because Jenkins Uses default 
port 8080.
3] Go to Jenkins Dashboard and click on New item
4] Give your Project Name and select Freestyle Project as the Project Type.
5] In the Configuration section, scroll down to the “Build” section and add an “Execute shell” 
build step
6] After this step, click on Save button.
7]go to Dashboard and click on “Build now symbol”.
8] Check the console output for “Hello Rushikesh” message.
-----------------------------------------Happy Learning -------------------------------------------
