Day 33 Task: Working with Namespaces and Services in Kubernetes 

 

Congrats🎊🎉 on updating your Deployment yesterday💥🙌 

What are Namespaces and Services in k8s 

In Kubernetes, Namespaces are used to create isolated environments for resources. Each Namespace is like a separate cluster within the same physical cluster. Services are used to expose your Pods and Deployments to the network. Read more about Namespace Here 

Today's task: 

 

Task 1: 

 

What is Namespace? 

 

A Namespace is a group of related elements that each have a unique name or identifier. Namespace is used to uniquely identify one or more names from other similar names of different objects, groups or the namespace in general. 

Kubernetes namespaces help different projects, teams or customers to share a Kubernetes cluster and provides a scope for every names 

By default, a Kubernetes cluster will instantiate a default namespace, when provisioning the cluster to hold the default set of pods, services and deployment used by cluster. 

Most Kubernetes resources (pods,services,replication controller and others) are in same namespaces and low-level resources such as Nodes,Persistentvolumes are not in any namespaces. 

  

Create a Namespace for your Deployment 

		kubectl create namespace react-django-ns 

Use the command kubectl create namespace <namespace-name> to create a Namespace 

	To check available namespaces 

		kubectl get namespaces 

 

	Delete the Previous (Use in Day32) Deployment file 

		kubectl delete -f deployment.yaml 

	 

Update the deployment file to include the Namespace 

		vi deployment.yaml 

apiVersion: v1 

kind: Deployment 

metadata: 

    name: django-deployment 

    namespace: react-django-ns   

    labels: 

      app: django 

spec: 

    replicas: 3 

    selector: 

      matchLabels: 

        app: django 

    template: 

      metadata: 

        labels: 

          app: django 

      spec: 

        containers: 

          - name: django-ctr 

            image: rushis750/django:latest 

            ports: 

              - containerPort: 8001 

 

 

		 

Apply the updated deployment using the command: kubectl apply -f deployment.yml -n <namespace-name> 

		kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml -n react-django-ns 

	 

	Checking the Running Pods 

	 

	For remove a pod and see, how exactly the Auto Healing is works 

		kubectl delete pods django-deployment-7cf8f56b48-2rftg -n react-django-ns 

	 

 

	Goto MiniKube running Container and see all container are running 

	 

Verify that the Namespace has been created by checking the status of the Namespaces in your cluster. 

Task 2: 

Read about Services, Load Balancing, and Networking in Kubernetes. Refer official documentation of Kubernetes Link 

Need help with Namespaces? Check out this video for assistance. 

Keep growing your Kubernetes knowledge💥🙌 

Happy Learning! :) 

 
